# Simin Yueling

## Month 1
* [Rites and Sacrifices] A.1.a. The first day of the first month is called the New Year. [The head of the household] personally leads his wife and children reverently to offer sacrifice to ancestors and [deceased] parents. Three days before [the ceremony], the head of the household and those who have assignments should have observed [a period of] purification. On the day of the ceremony, wine is served to cause the spirits to descend.
* [Social and Clan Life] A.1.b. After the ceremony is over, the whole family, including the old and the young, sit according to seniority in front of the ancestors. The sons, their wives, the grandchildren, and the great- grandchildren each presents pepper [blossom] wine to the head of the household, to toast to health and longevity. They do so happily. One should call upon and send seasonal greetings to the lord, the teachers, the former superiors, the kinsmen, the seniors in the clan, the friends of the father, friends, relatives, and elders in the community.
* [Social and Clan Life] A.2. In this month, select a good day to have the capping ceremony for young adolescents.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] A.3. The hundred kinds of plants sprout. The dormant insects emerge. On the first ting day of the month, the guardian deity of the travelers is worshipped at the gateside so that the yang atmosphere (ie., aura) is ushered in and the stagnant atmosphere is expelled; [thereby] one prays for blessings and good luck. Also, on the first hai day of the month, the agricultural deity and the ancestors are worshipped to pray for a good harvest for the year.
* [Health Measures] A.4. On the Ch’u day of the first ten days of the month, or on the fifteenth day of the month, one prepares medicinal pastes, pills, homemade remedies and a kind of powdered medicine.
* [Social and Clan Life] A.5.a. Farming activities are not started yet so that the adolescents and those older are sent to the school of upper grades, where the five classics are taught. The other historical materials are not to be studied unless there is a good faculty and a good tradition of teaching. When the water on the ink stone is not frozen, the young children are sent to grade school to learn reading, writing, and arithmetic.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.5.b. The girl workers are urged to weave cloth.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.6. From the beginning to the end of the month, the trees that can be transplanted are bamboo, lacquer tree, the tung tree, the Catalpa kaempferi, pine, cypress, and other trees. Only fruit trees are not transplanted after the fifteenth day of the month.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.7. On the day of Yü-shui, as the vapor of the earth starts to ascend, the planted peg is covered by the upswelled earth, and the roots of the last year’s crop can be uprooted, and one must hasten to remove the grass from fields of superior [rich] soil and black earth.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.8. [From now] until the second month, it is time to plant spring wheat and small peas. [It is] also time to plant melons, gourds, mustard greens, mallow, leeks, large and small green onions, water-peppers, thyme, alfalfa (Medicago denticulata), a variety of garlic, and taro. [It is] also time to transplant leeks and mustard greens and to put manure on the soil.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.9. On the first hsin day of the month, clean up the dry leaves in the leek furrows.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.10. This month and throughout the second month, trees can be pruned.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] A.11.a. The [head of the household] orders the one in charge of food in person to brew spring wine reverently and cleanly for provisions for the offering at the summer sacrifices.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.11.b. One can make various sauces. In the first ten days of the month, the soybean is fried; in the second ten days, soybean is boiled. The chopped soybean is made for the mo-tu paste, which, by the conjunction of the sixth and seventh month, is to be used for preserving melons [pickles], as well as for making fish sauces, meat sauce, and basic soy sauce.
* [Agriculture and Labor] A.12. From this month to the late summer, one cannot fell bamboos and trees [because the timber] will have worms and insects.
* [Health Measures] A.13. White dogs are collected, as well as the liver and the blood thereof, which can be used to concoct remedies.

## Month 2
* [Rites and Sacrifices] B.1. In the second month, on the day of offering sacrifice at the shrine of the Grand Altar (i.e., the local patron god), one presents leeks and eggs to ancestors and [deceased] parents. Beforehand, purification, food preparations, cleaning, and washing, all are according to those of the formal sacrificial ceremonies. In the evening, one also sets out grave registers and the food and sacrificial vessels. In the morning, the offerings are presented in the tomb. If on the day there is an order from the ruler or other case of emergency, a good day for offering sacrifice at the cemetery should be selected by divination.
* [Social and Clan Life] B.2. In this month, a date can be selected for a wedding.
* [Estate Defense] B.3. On fine days, one practices archery to be prepared for the unexpected.
* [Agriculture and Labor] B.4. When ice in the shadows has thawed completely, one can turn over [the grass] in fields of good soil, soft soil, and small plots on riverbanks. One can plant spiked millet, soybean, female hemp, and sesame.
* [Health Measures] B.5. On the day of the spring equinox, thunder will be first heard. Five days before and after, husband and wife should sleep separately.
* [Agriculture and Labor] B.6. Activities for sericulture are not yet started. The tailor is ordered to wash winter clothes and to remove the wadding and [thereby] make lined garments. The surplus cloth is made into autumn clothing.
* [Agriculture and Labor] B.7. In this month elm pods are fully developed. They should be collected when they are still green and dried for storage. If the color changes to white and they are about to fall, the pod can be harvested and made into elm sauce.
* [Agriculture and Labor] B.8. From this month through the third month one can bury tree branches. One can plant foxglove (Rehmannia glutinosa, Li.), collect peach blossoms, madder (Rubia cordifolia), rootstocks of kua-lo (Trichosanthes japonica), and t’u-kua (Trichosanthes cucumeroides); in the hilly areas, collect wu-t’ou (Aconitum carmichaeli Debx.), tien-hsiung (Aconitum fischeri Rich.), and t’ien-men-tung (Asparagus lucidus). One can sell millet, panicled millet, soybeans, hemp, and wheat seed and collect charcoal.
* [Agriculture and Labor] B.9. When the swallows build their nests, then one plasters the wall.

## Month 3
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.1. On the third day of the month, one can plant melons; on this day and the first day of Ch’u one collects artemisia leaves, wu-chiu moss (Stenoloma chusaum, L. ching), the fringed pink (Dianthus superbus), and willow catkins.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.2. On the day of Ch’ing-ming, the women [who take care] of the silkworms are ordered to prepare the silkworm chamber by plastering the cracks and holes in the walls and by preparing the frameworks and trays for silkworms and the baskets for mulberry leaves.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.3. Ten days after Ch'ing-ming, fresh ginger is sealed [in mud] ; after the day of Li-hsia, as soon as sprouts emerge, it can be planted.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.4.a. By the time of Ku-yii, when the silkworms are all hatched, one joins together wives and children to diligently carry out the work.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.4.b. Do not allow them to devote themselves to other tasks and thereby bring disorder to the primary occupation. Those who disobey such an order should be punished without hesitation.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.5. In this month, the apricot blossoms are in full bloom. One can remove the grass in the fields of sandy soil, white soil, and light soil. When it rains, it [is time] to plant [nonglutinous] keng rice, early ripening spiked millet, hemp, broadbeans, and sesame, and to transplant small green onions. When the constellation Shen does not appear at the south horizon in the evening, and when the mulberry turns red, one can plant soybeans. This is the best time. When the elm pods fall, one can plant indigo.
* [Social and Clan Life] C.6. In this month, the winter grain is about exhausted, yet the mulberry and the wheat are not ripe. One should coincide with the yang element and extend grace by relieving the poor and those in need; devote attention first to the nine grades of relatives, starting with the closest ones. Neither hold back money without being sympathetic toward the poverty-stricken, nor be motivated for reputation by exhausting one’s own property for the sake of imitating the wealthy. The expenditures should be within the range of income in order to reach an appropriate balance.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.7.a. Agricultural activities are still leisurely. One can drain the drainages and irrigation canals, repair walls and houses while waiting for the [monsoon] rain to come.
* [Estate Defense] C.7.b. Doors and windows are fixed, and security facilities are made ready to guard against bandits and thieves during spring famines.
* [Agriculture and Labor] C.8.a. From this month until the summer solstice, the warming vapors will flourish; the heat of the sun will dry and heat [things] ; hence, it is advantageous to use lacquer and oil.
* [Health Measures] C.8.b. and to make various sun-dried medicines.
* [Commercial Activities] C.9. [It is time] to sell millet and to buy cloth.

## Month 4
* [Agriculture and Labor] D.1. In the fourth month, after the day of Li-hsia, the silkworm eats voraciously. One can plant ginger and make sauce from the roe of bonito fish.
* [Agriculture and Labor] D.2. Silkworms are ascending the hay bundles; the timely rain falls. One can plant millet, spiked millet — which is the best time — as well as soybeans, lesser beans, and sesame.
* [Agriculture and Labor] D.3. On the fourth day of this month, one can brew vinegar.
* [Agriculture and Labor] D.4. The silk cocoons appear in the hay bundles. One hastens to the reeling. The cocoons are opened and the weaving looms are readied; one is careful of the way to keep them [the filaments] unbroken. Gathered are seeds of rape, turnips, seeds of mustard, of parsley (Petroselinum hortense hoffm.), of winter hibiscus, and of lang-tang (Scopolia japonica max.). When the cuckoo is calling, one can harvest small garlic. When the grasses grow luxuriant, they can be burned for ashes.
* [Social and Clan Life] D.6.a. In this month, one can make date cake to treat guests.
* [Commercial Activities] D.6.b. One can buy oats, and barley, as well as silk wadding.
* [Agriculture and Labor] D.6.c. One can transplant small green onions.

## Month 5
* [Estate Defense] E.1. In the fifth month, after the day of Mang-chung, the yang force starts to decrease and the influence of the yin is about to emerge. The weather begins to be warm. Insects and worms are plentiful. One should relax the bows and crossbows with parts of horn and remove the strings. One should stretch the bamboo and wooden bows and relax the string on them. Using ashes, one should store felt, fur, and furry things, as well as arrow feathers. Raincoats are hung on bamboo poles. Do not fold them to store them.
* [Health Measures] E.2. On the fifth day of this month, one can make vinegar, compound pills of huang-lien (Coptis chinensis) for diarrhea and cholera, collect the herb hsi-erh, catch toads for making external medicine, and collect crickets [for obstetrics medicine].
* [Rites and Sacrifices] E.3. On the day of the summer solstice, wheat and fish are presented to ancestors and [deceased] parents. When that day dawns, the sacrifice is offered. One day before [the ceremony], [one follows] the procedures for food preparation, purification, and cleansing, all of which are similar to [the ceremony for] presenting leeks and eggs.
* [Agriculture and Labor] E.4. When the timely rain falls, one can plant sesame. Five days before and after the summer solstice, one can plant late ripening spiked millet and male hemp; two days before and after [that date], one can plant millet.
* [Agriculture and Labor] E.5.a. In this month, one can transplant rice and indigo. Until twenty days after the summer solstice, one can turn over the wheatfield and cut the hay stock. After wheat is harvested, plenty of cakes should be made as provisions for travelers.
* [Agriculture and Labor] E.5.b. The rainy season is about to come; rice, unhusked grain, firewood, and charcoal should be stored to prepare for the road being impassable from water and mud.
* [Health Measures] E.6. In this month, the yang and the yin forces are contending [for dominance], and the energy of the blood is dissipated. During the five days before and after the summer solstice [the husband and the wife should] sleep separately. The yin force enters [the body] and becomes blocked in the stomach, which cannot digest oily foods; [hence, for] ten days before until ten days after the summer solstice one should go light on rich flavors and spices and not have many fatty, rich meals. [By the time of] Li-ch’iu, do not eat boiled pastries and pastries made by soaking meal.
* [Agriculture and Labor] E.7.a. In this month, one can prepare elm sauce and minced meat sauce.
* [Commercial Activities] E.7.b. One sells beans, lesser beans, sesame; buys oats, barley, and wheat; and collects cloth rags and clothes.
* [Agriculture and Labor] E.7.c. After the summer solstice, one can buy wheat husks, which after drying, are tightly sealed in urns in order to have no worms. In the winter, they can be fed to horses.

## Month 6
* [Rites and Sacrifices] F.1. In the first part of high summer in the sixth month, wheat and melon are presented to ancestors and [deceased] parents. Purification, food preparation, cleansing, and washing, all are the same as [the procedure for the ceremony of] presenting wheat and fish.
* [Agriculture and Labor] F.2. In this month, one is urged to weed with hoes. Do not miss the time! The wheatfield is to be turned over. The female workers are ordered to weave white and light silk.
* [Agriculture and Labor] F.3. On the sixth day of this month, one can plant mallow (Malva verticillata). After the midpart of high summer, one can plant winter hibiscus; one can plant turnips, winter indigo, and small garlic, and transplant large green onions. One can burn [wood for] ashes for dying green, purple, and other colors.
* [Agriculture and Labor] F.4. After the day of Ta-shu, and the midpart of high summer is over, one can store gourds, lay up melons, and gather mustard seed, until the seventh month.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] F.5. On the twentieth day of the month, one can hull and sift wheat and grind it. On the twenty-eighth day, one soaks it and keeps it in the bedroom. By the seventh day of the seventh month, one ought to make yeast leaven. One must personally and reverently [carry out these steps] to provide the resources for sacrificial [liquor] offerings throughout the whole year. The quantity [of the yeast] is not fixed but is determined by the financial condition of the house.
* [Commercial Activities] F.6. One can sell soybeans, buy oats and wheat, and collect plain white silk.

## Month 7
* [Agriculture and Labor] G.1. On the fourth day of the seventh month, one orders the preparation of the brewing chamber, one readies mats (i.e., screens for walls), and frameworks, and gathers clean artemisia leaves. On the sixth day, the five grains and the mill are all ready.
* [Agriculture and Labor] G.2.a. On the seventh day, one then makes yeast.
* [Health Measures] G.2.b. On this day, one can compound medicinal pills and shu-ch’i pills, expose books and clothes to the sunlight, prepare dried food, and pick hsi-erh.
* [Agriculture and Labor] G.3. In this month, one can plant rape, turnips, mustard, alfalfa, large and small green onions, small garlic, and shallots, and transplant leeks, store leek flowers, cut hay, turn over wheatfields, and collect cypress seeds.
* [Agriculture and Labor] G.4. The day of Ch’u-shu is close to the autumn season. Old clothing is washed; the new is tailored. Heavy clothing is made to prepare for the beginning of cold weather.
* [Commercial Activities] G.5. One can sell lesser beans and beans, buy wheat, and collect raw silk and white silk.

## Month 8
* [Rites and Sacrifices] H.1. In the eighth month, a good day after the day of Pai-lu is selected by divination to offer sacrifices to the honored deities who are regularly worshipped through the year. During the seven days before [the ceremony], the whole family shall not go to houses where there is mourning or a new birth. The young, the old, and those who have assignments, all should observe purification. One sets forth the sacrificial registers, and devotes oneself with exceptional care to cleaning and washing. In this month, sacrifices are offered to the Grand Altar. On the day of worship, millet and pigs are presented to ancestors and [deceased] parents. On the morning of the day, one worships at the tombs with the same [ceremony as when] presenting wheat and fish.
* [Social and Clan Life] H.2.a. When the summer heat is receding, the small children are sent to school as they are in the first month.
* [Agriculture and Labor] H.2.b. The cool breeze heralds the cold. One should hurry to select various kinds of plain, white silk to be dyed in colors. One can tear apart the floss and make ready the wadding. New clothes are made; the old, washed.
* [Commercial Activities] H.2.c. Reed sandals are purchased when they are cheap and good in anticipation of need to prepare for wintry bitter cold.
* [Health Measures] H.3. On the eighth day of this month, one can collect the herbs, chü-ch’ien-tzu (Plantago major L.), wu-t’ou, t’ien-hsiung, and wang-pu-liu-hsing (Vaccaria pyramidata medic.).
* [Social and Clan Life] H.4. In this month, one can marry [a wife].
* [Agriculture and Labor] H.5. One can cut open the gourds for use, dry foxglove, make mo-tu preserve paste, cut weeds and hay [for fodder], collect leek flowers and make leek sauce. One can dry mallow, collect leaves of beans, and plant large and small garlic and mustard. Whenever barley and wheat are planted, the inferior fields should be planted on the day of Pai-lu; the ordinary fields, on the day of the autumn equinox; and the fertile, ten days later. Only oats [can be planted] either early or late; there is no regularity.
* [Estate Defense] H.6. As it is cool and dry, bows with parts of horn may be set up. The structure [for assembling the bow] is repaired and corrected and the string is tied on; then it is time to practice archery. Bamboo and wooden bows are to be relaxed.
* [Commercial Activities] H.7. Sell wheat seed, buy millet.

## Month 9
* [Agriculture and Labor] I.1.a. In the ninth month, the pounding field is to be cleaned, the [walls of] the granary, plastered; the storage pit, repaired.
* [Estate Defense] I.1.b. The five weapons are repaired and military exercises and archery are practiced to guard against bandits in the time of coldness and poverty.
* [Social and Clan Life] I.1.c. Relatives and kinsmen are comforted: the widows, the orphans, the aged, the sick, and those who are not able to take care of themselves. Divide the wealth and distribute what one has an abundance of to relieve them from the cold.
* [Health Measures] I.2. On the ninth day of this month, one can pick chrysanthemum flowers and collect chih oranges (Citrus trifoliata L.).
* [Agriculture and Labor] I.3. The ninth month [is the time] to make preserved and dried mallow, to store fresh ginger and wild ginger. If it is still warm in that year, all [these works] should be delayed to the tenth month.

## Month 10
* [Agriculture and Labor] J.1. walls are reconstructed and thickened, north windows are blocked, and holes are plastered up. One should hurry to store up the harvest, which ought not to be left in the open field! One can collect turnips and store up melons.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] J.2. On the first hsin day of the month, the cook is ordered to steep the yeast leaven. When the yeast is dampened one brews winter wine. [The master] must [prepare this] reverently in person to provide the wine for use in the sacrifices at the winter solstice, in the la sacrifice, New Year’s Day, for the guardian deity for travelers, and in the presentation of leeks and eggs [in the second month].
* [Agriculture and Labor] J.3. In this month, one makes dried and salted meat for use in the la ceremony.
* [Social and Clan Life] J.4. When agricultural activities are over, one orders the adolescents and those older to enter the senior school, the same as in the first month.
* [Agriculture and Labor] J.5.a. The five grains are harvested; the household collects its stores.
* [Social and Clan Life] J.5.b. Then, according with ordinances of the seasons, one orders that funerals [be carried out]. If there is a poor clansman who has been dead for a long time and for whom burial could not be afforded, one should then organize the clan members to jointly give assistance [for the burial]. The responsibility is determined by the criteria of relationship and wealth. The share should be fairly decided so that there is no excessive burden. Pay heed to putting first one’s own exaction in order to lead others to follow.
* [Agriculture and Labor] J.6. In this month, one can transplant large green onions. Before freezing begins, let jelly food be prepared and sweetcakes be made. One can split hemp; one hastens to spin hempen thread. One makes white shoes and grass sandals. One sells clothes, silk, and waddings. One purchases spiked millet, beans and lesser beans, and hempseed. One gathers kua-lo gourds.

## Month 11
* [Rites and Sacrifices] K.1. In the eleventh month, on the winter solstice, one presents millet and lamb; first, sacrifices are offered to the water deity at the well, and then to ancestors and [deceased] parents. Purification, food preparation, cleaning, and washing — all are similar to [the procedure for the ceremony of] offering millet and pigs. Toasting the seniors, and preparing name cards, calling upon, and offering greetings to the lord, the teachers, and the elders are similar to what was done in the first month.
* [Health Measures] K.2. In this month, the yin and the yang elements are contending for dominance, and the energy of the blood is dispersed. For five days before and five days after the winter solstice, the husband and the wife should sleep separately.
* [Other Family Activities] K.3. Water on the ink stone freezes; one orders the young children to read the texts of the Classic of Filial Piety and the [Confucian] Analects, and to enter the lower school.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] K.4.a. Gradually, one should prepare millet, spiked millet, and rice food, which are all provisions for the sacrifices in the la ceremony.
* [Agriculture and Labor] K.4.b. One can brew [fermented] meat sauce, and cut bamboo and timber.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] K.4.c. White dogs are purchased and raised for the sacrifice to ancestors and [deceased] parents.
* [Commercial Activities] K.5.a. Buy keng rice, spiked millet, beans, lesser beans, and hempseed.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] K.5.b. [Addendum] On the day of the winter solstice, one measures one sheng of each of the five kinds of grain, which are put in small urns and buried in the shadow of the northern wall. Fifty days after the winter solstice, [the grains] are taken out and measured. The one that has gained most will be the most suitable for the coming year.

## Month 12
* [Rites and Sacrifices] L.1. On the day of the la sacrifice in the twelfth month, one offers rice and wild geese. Five days before the date, pigs are butchered. Three days before the date, sheep are butchered. Two days before the date, there is purification, food preparation, cleaning, and washing then the la sacrifice is offered to ancestors and to the five deities. The day after the la sacrifice is called “Minor New Year’; wine is offered and the deities descend. Toasting the seniors, preparing name cards, and offering greetings to the lord, the teachers, and the elders are similar to that on the New Year’s Day. On the next day, once again sacrifices are offered; it is called the cheng sacrifice. Three days later, the sacrificial ceremonies in the house are concluded. Then, to promote goodwill, clansmen, relatives, and guests are invited and entertained. Agricultural activities are stopped and labor is brought to a halt; the workers have a rest; grace must be downward extended.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] L.2. In this month, a multitude of deities incessantly move around. A ta-cha ceremony is held; one then offers sacrifices to [deceased] lords, teachers, kinsmen, and friends to esteem the principle of lasting relationships.
* [Agriculture and Labor] L.3. Then there is rematching of farming teams and selecting implements. Plow oxen are raised; those good for field work are chosen, awaiting the beginning of farming.
* [Rites and Sacrifices] L.4.a. Store the pig jaw bone, burn the bamboo fan used during the sacrifices of the la ceremony, and at the East Gate, crush the head of a white rooster [as a talisman].
* [Health Measures] L.4.b. Find oxen gall to make pediatric medicine.

